# Pro Tips

This assignment has been completed many times, by many candidates applying to work with SimPPL. Here is a breakdown of what separates successful candidates from unsuccessful ones:

1. Successful candidates did not build generic systems with five bar graphs, two time-series plots, and one network graph stuck in different tabs on a streamlit dashboard which was [the most common submission from applicants](https://github.com/SimPPL/research-engineering-intern-assignment/forks).
2. Successful candidates built fewer features but executed each feature extremely well, and made it robust to many kinds of user inputs. For example, one intern built a complete system with real-time YouTube search and that was incredibly cool for us to use, not just evaluate.
3. Successful candidates spent a lot of time thinking about the goals of their system. They manually decided what would go into their platform, creating a design doc before trying to use any kind of AI tool for programming. As a result they were much better when asked to talk us through what their motivation was for the design choices they made for their submission.
4. Successful candidates were conceptually extremely clear. As a common example, even for something common to most submissions like network graphs, successful candidates could talk us through how the layout worked, why they filtered the data in a certain way, what additional elements would make a network graph more useful, what alternative approaches could be used to implement it (and which ones they considered, in choosing their implementation).
5. Successful candidates were extremely well-read on the latest techniques in several of the following areas (where they could speak continously for a 2-4 minutes on the history of the methods or applications in an area/their experience working in an area): retrieval augmented generation, GPU-based clustering, graph databases, web scraping, social media data collection, embedding based data analysis, AI agents, benchmarks and evaluation, data engineering, cloud based deployment, and more. 
6. Successful candidates had more experience outside of just this assignment, with the areas enlisted above, reflecting their genuine interest and experience in the field outside of SimPPL's focus. 
